title: Firefox Browser Notes for Offline Usage
desc: Notes for offline use of the Guide in Firefox.

<h1 id="title">Firefox Browser Notes for Offline Usage</h1>

The amount of offline storage needed for this guide is quite
reasonable on modern devices, but it is still an intense experience
for some browsers.  Hopefully these notes will prevent frustration on
your end.

<h3>Keeping the Download Alive</h3>

Downloading files for offline use will continue in the background
while you browse the guide (including this page).
However, <b>downloading is likely to pause</b> in any of the following
cases:
. Your device goes to sleep.  (You might need to occasionally touch your mobile screen if it would otherwise time out due to inactivity.)
. You switch to your home screen or a different app.
. You browse to a different site.

If the downloading process is paused, just click the green button
again to resume.

On a desktop, it should be sufficient to keep the Guide tab visible
(not minimized), even if another window has focus.

<h3>Storage Limits</h3>

Firefox allows a web app to use up to 10% of the available free space
on your device.  (Not 10% of the total space!)  If that is not enough,
you might need to use another browser with a less restrictive limit.

Firefox on the desktop may ask whether to allow the Guide to store
data in persistent storage.  If you respond with "Not now" or "Never",
the offline files will still be recorded, but the browser may delete
them later if space runs short.  If you respond with "Allow", all
offline Guide files (including files downloaded previously) will be
kept until you actively delete them.  Oddly, persistent files don't
fully count toward quota usage.  The Guide therefore estimates the
actual usage.

As far as I can tell, <b>Firefox on mobile does not yet support
persistent storage.</b>  In practice, as long as you use the Guide
occasionally, Firefox is unlikely to delete its offline files.

If you've read down this far, congratulations.  You might be the kind
of person who runs their browser in Private Browsing mode.  Firefox
doesn't allow any interaction with offline files while in Private
Browsing mode.  You'll need to disable Private Browsing in order to
download or use offline files.

<h3>Save to your Home Screen</h3>

You can save a link to the Guide on your home screen.  On Android,
open the Firefox menu and select "Install."  Sometimes this doesn't
actually put anything on your home screen.  If so, you can manually
drag it from Android's installed apps to your home screen.

Firefox on iOS or the desktop doesn't offer an installation option.
Sorry.  As an alternative, you can bookmark the Guide for use in
offline mode.

<h3>Bandwidth While Offline</h3>

Because of the strange way that browsers work, every page load will
attempt to fetch ~25 KB from the internet even when the site is using
its local offline copy.  (E.g. viewing 40 pages will fetch ~1 MB.)  If
you have a large or unlimited data plan, this is nothing to worry
about.  If you have a very limited data plan, consider putting your
phone in airplane mode while using the site in offline mode.

<h3>Try it!</h3>

Return to the <a href="index.html">Guide home</a> and give offline
mode a try.  If it doesn't work, online browsing remains supported as
always.

footer
