The text in the file is standard HTML.  The program creates a standard
header and footer for each page and includes the HTML text between
them.  The standard header includes any photos associated (by name)
with the page, plus links to CalPhotos as specified in the text.

In addition to the standard HTML, the following text cases are handled
specially.  Each case must be on a line by itself unless otherwise
specified.

Comment lines start with a # and are ignored.  Note that a comment
must be on a line by itself.  A # elsewhere on the line has a
different purpose (described in glossary.txt).

--
Names:

The filename defines a default common name (if all lowercase) or
default scientific name (if any letter is uppercase).  My preference
for the filename is to use the common name if there is one and it is
unique in the bay area.  The filename also determines the filename
used for the corresponding HTML page.

com:<name> specifies the common name for the flower.  My preference is
to use the common name as given by iNaturalist for my area, although
I'll sometimes alter it or (especially for an intermediate level of
hierarchy) make one up.

sci:<name> specifies the scientific name for the flower.  The name can
be elaborated or stripped, although elaborated is recommended.  For a
genus, the elaborated name is "(Genus) spp.".  For a subspecies or
variety, the elaborated name "(Genus) (species) ssp. (subspecies)" or
"(...) var. (...)".  If the scientific name is stripped of its
elaborations, "spp." is assumed for a single-word name and "ssp." is
assumed for a three-word name.  If the species name starts with an
'X', e.g. "Iris Xgermanica", the 'X' is stripped off and a cross is
displayed to mark it as a hybrid.

If the common name or scientific name is not explicitly specified, the
program will attempt to find one by searching through observations.csv
for the given name.

The canonical scientific name is the one used by iNaturalist, but
other sites may be out of date or have made a different choice.  In
that case, different scientic names can be specified for the various
sites where it differs from the iNaturalist name.  See sci_i and the
related specifications below.

More information can be applied to the page or to a child page as
described below.

--
Child links and key info:

==<name> creates a child relationship to the named page.  The
specified name can be the scientific name (elaborated or stripped) or
the common name (if there is exactly one match) of the child.  If the
name is in [com]:[sci] format, both names are used to find the
corresponding page, and the page is updated if it has only one of the
names.  A link to the child page is also created.  Regardless of how
many names were used to create the link, the link displays the common
name and scientific name of the child page.  It also displays the
first image for the page (a jpg or a CalPhotos placeholder) or a blank
placeholder.  If the child declaration specifies the common name
ending with ',[jpg_suffix]', this is stripped from the link, but the
specified jpg is used as the link image instead of the default first
image.  If the (common) name is prefixed with a asterisk, '*', the
photo used to represent that child on the page is also used to
represent the main page in its parent.

If there is additional text in the same paragraph (on lines following
the child declaration, not separated by a blank line), the link and
the additional text are formatted as a unit.  The additional text is
called "key text", and is typically a bullet-point list of
distinguishing features for the child compared to other children on
the same page.  On a wide page, the key text appears next to the image
and below the name; on a narrow page, the key text appears below the
image and name.

The following info can be included as part of the key for a child.  If
it appears elsewhere in the txt file (not in the paragraph following a
child link; typically at the top of the file), the info is applied to
the page itself.


If different sites disagree on the scientific name for a species, I
generally prefer the name listed in Plants of the World Online (POWO).
The name for other sites can be specified as follows:

sci_i:<name> specifies the scientific name as listed in iNaturalist.
sci_j:<name> specifies the scientific name as listed in Jepson.
sci_f:<name> specifies the scientific name as listed in CalFlora.
sci_p:<name> specifies the scientific name as listed in CalPhotos.
sci_b:<name> specifies the scientific name as listed in BugGuide.

Multiple names can be specified for CalPhotos, separated by |.  The
canonical name is also automatically included in the CalPhotos search
in addition to the specified CalPhotos name(s).

If multiple sites use the same scientific name, they can be combined
into one declaration, e.g. "sci_jfp:<name>".

If the name is "n/a", it indicates that the taxon is not listed under
any name at a site.

--
Other information:

There are a number of properties that can be applied to designated
taxonomic ranks in the Linnaean hierarchy.  Details about these
properties are in properties.txt.


A page can declare that a full hierarchy of its descendants should be
displayed in place of the usual listing of children as follows:

list_hierarchy

The hierarchy is listed after the normal txt contents (if any).  The
child list is normally expected to be created via the 'link' property
(described below).  If any children are declared manually in the txt,
these listings (and any key info) are omitted from the HTML, although
the child relationships are retained.  The hierarchy is always ordered
by observation frequency, regardless of the order in which children
are declared.

The hierarchy listing stops traversing descendants when it reaches a
page marked with 'end_hierarchy'.


'taxon_id: <value>' declares the iNaturalist taxon_id.  The taxon_id
is retrieved for many taxons from observations.csv, but a manual
declaration can be useful if a particular taxon is commonly referenced
but never observed, especially if it has an ambiguous scientific name
(e.g. genus Allium) or no scientific name (e.g. life).

'bug: <value>' declares the BugGuide taxon ID.  BugGuide links are
created only for those taxons with a declared ID.


A page can declare a Linnaean ancestor (a higher group in the Linnaean
taxonomy) as follows:

<rank>: <name>

The named page does not need to exist, and it will not be
automatically created.  However, the Linnaean relationship can come in
handy for the properties described below.  Multiple Linnaean ancestors
can be declared at different ranks from the same page.


color:[names] specifies the colors of the taxon, separated by commas.
Supported colors are in the color_list variable.  Colors are expected
for all taxons with associated photos (and usually at the lowest level
of taxon hierarchy), and not for taxons without photos.


subset color: [<color>], [list name], [<page name>]
creates a page (named <page name>) which lists the hierarchy of
descendants that match the indicated <color>.  If the 'subset'
declaration is in a page to which the 'member_list' property applies,
then member pages also list their color membership, e.g.

Member of blue, pale blue in flowering plants


The completeness of the guide is indicated with x:[txt] or xx:[txt].
x: specifies the completeness of a genus, and xx: is for a species.
Each can also be used at a lower taxon level when there are no other
members of the genus/species.  For this reason, both x and xx can
potentially be used on the same page.

The following [txt] values can be used for x: or xx:
ba - there are no other taxon members in the bay area
ca - there are no other taxon members in California
any - there are no other taxon members anywhere
hist - taxon members only in the historical record are ignored
rare - extremely rare taxon members are ignored
hist/rare - historical and extremely rare taxon members are ignored
more - there are additional taxon members that need to be documented
![txt] - the key to distinguish the taxon members is not complete

The following [txt] values can be used only for xx:
none - taxon has no subspecies or variants
uncat - species has subspecies or variants not worth categorizing
  (e.g. because the common ones don't have common names)

If the completeness is left unspecified for a genus, it acts as
x:more.  If the completeness is left unspecified for a species, then
no completeness information is put on the species page.  (Completeness
of the members of a species is not a priority.)


https://calphotos.berkeley.edu/[...]
https://www.calflora.org/cgi-bin/noccdetail.cgi[...]
These links associate an external photo with the page.  A placeholder
image is added to the list of images, along with a link to the
CalPhotos/CalFlora page.  If '[label]:' appears before the link, the
corresponding label is added to the placeholder.  The label may
include spaces.


'rep: <name or suffix>' indicates which jpg should be used to
represent the page in its parent's listing/key.  If a suffix is given,
it is appended to the page name to get a jpg name.  A full jpg name
can also be given (without the .jpg suffix).  Alternatively, a child
page name can be given, and the representative jpg for that child is
used as the representative jpg for this page as well.


'[example,<suffix>]' in a child's key is replaced with a link to the
corresponding jpg, but only in the parent.  If the key text is copied
to the child, the link is removed from its copy.


--
Other formatting:

{-[page]} creates a link to a page without creating a child
relationship.  The link is just the common and scientific names of the
child inline with the rest of the text, without any image or special
formatting.

figure:filename on a line by itself creates a thumbnail and a link to
the corresponding SVG file in the figures directory.  The '.svg'
suffix is optional in the txt.

[figure:filename] anywhere in the txt is replaced with the text
'[figure]' with a link to the corresponding SVG file in the figures
directory.  The '.svg' suffix is optional in the txt.

'[' and ']' (each on a line by itself) creates a light-bordered box
surrounding all text between the brackets.  Useful for organizing
subsets of children on a page.

Any number of periods starting a line creates an unnumbered list.  The
depth of the list is equal to the number of periods.

The following are replaced with better-looking unicode characters:
+-
--
<=
>=
<<
>>
'

Manual html links (<a href=...>) are updated to include
target="_blank" so that they open in a new tab/window.

--
Strategy:

It's often handy to first create a stub page for a genus or species,
using its common name from iNaturalist as the filename and also giving
its scientific name with sci:<name>.  The created HTML page then has
convenient links for finding all bay area species within the same
genus that are known by CalFlora, finding the key in Jepson, etc.
